In this lesson, we will go over pathway number two, logging in.
So to jog your memory in pathway number two, the user tries to log in with the correct credentials.
The request gets caught in the authentication filter.
And if their credentials match what we have in our records, then they are granted a JWT token.
This was the more general representation of the pathway.
But if we're going to be implementing it, we need to be more specific.
So what's really going to happen is we're authentication filter will have an attempt authentication
method and this method is going to retrieve the username and password that's being passed in and it's
going to create an authentication object.
It's going to send the authentication object to an authentication manager.
The authentication manager is going to have a special method called authenticate that will receive the
authentication object containing all of the credentials.
The authentication manager is going to perform a one way hash on the password, and then it's going
to try to match the credentials that were passed in against what we have in our records.
If the credentials match, it's going to return the authentication object.
And upon doing so, we've essentially indicated a successful authentication.
Then a method called successful authentication inside of our filter is going to get invoked and it's
going to send back a JWT token.
Before we start, please go to Postman and set up another post request called Authenticate User that
makes a post request to local host 88 slash login and it's going to have the same payload as what you
would have in the original register request.
So please pause the video and take some time to set this up.
All right.
And now we can go ahead and implement our filter.
So if you go inside of security down to filter, go to your authentication filter class.
And what we're going to do is inherit from the username password authentication filter because by doing
so, we can override the methods that we discussed earlier, attempt authentication and successful authentication.
So let's do that right now.
Attempt authentication.
And our filters attempt authentication method is going to get invoked as soon as a user makes a request
on slash log in.
We're going to change that to be slash authenticate later.
But for now, if the user makes a request on slash login, the first method that will get invoked is
attempt authentication.
And when the user's request makes it all the way over here, we need to extract the body of that request.
And we can do that by saying.
Request dot get input stream.
This will retrieve the body of the request as binary data, and we know that the body consists of two
fields.
Username and password.
And we want to serialize those two fields into the properties of our Java object user.
So we'll go back here and we're going to say user.
Please import the correct user, the one that corresponds to our entity.
User user is equal to.
And what we're going to do is use an object mapper.
To perform the serialization process.
In essence, what it's going to do is map the incoming data to a user object and to perform this serialization
process we can say we value.
This expects to parameters the data from our post request, which we're going to map to an object of
type user.
D serializing the incoming request data into the properties of our user object.
And now if the user were to specify invalid fields, then our object mapper is going to have a hard
time mapping these fields into the properties of our user.
And what that's going to do is throw an exception.
We're going to have to try to run this code and catch the exception if the code fails.
And the exception that we're going to catch is going to be of type I of exception.
And now here what we can do is throw.
A new runtime exception.
And why are we doing that?
The reason is if the user were to pass in bad JSON field values, that would be impossible to map into
the properties of a user class.
So for example, password with four DS is not going to get mapped into this property and as a result
we're going to end up here.
And so what I want to do is throw an exception in order to then handle it and send them back a 400 response,
not a 403, to indicate that they made a bad request.
The reason their request didn't work is not because they were forbidden from doing so.
It's just because we could not understand what they were sending us.
But here is the issue.
We're throwing a new runtime exception and we're throwing it from inside of a filter.
I know what you're thinking.
Hey, Ryan, why didn't you just make a custom exception?
Throw it and then handle it inside the application exception handler.
What I'm about to say won't make much sense, but just bear with me.
The exception handler will only work if the request is being handled by the dispatcher servlet.
We'll talk about the dispatcher servlet in the next video.
But all I want you to know is that spring security filters, they come before the dispatcher servlet.
So by throwing an exception from inside of a filter, it is impossible to handle it inside of controller
advice.
So what are we going to do?
Don't worry about that right now.
We will handle this exception in the next video.
Let's just move on.
So let's assume that our client did pass in a valid JSON fields that effectively serialize into the
properties of our user object.
Then our next step is to pass the credentials that are inside the user object to the authentication
manager.
The authentication manager is something that we're going to implement a couple of videos from now.
For the time being, let's just print the credentials so that we can wrap up the user, get username.
User don't get password.
And now for this filter to get invoked, when a user goes on slash login, we're going to have to go
to the security config and add this filter to our filter chain, new authentication filter.
All right.
I'm going to run my application in debug mode and add three breakpoints over here.
Okay.
Let's make a request to sign up.
You know what?
I'm not going to bother refreshing the database.
The user will get registered, then I will authenticate them.
Obviously that's not going to work because we don't have any authentication logic in place.
All we're doing is grabbing the credentials and storing them in a user object.
That works just fine.
Here is grand slim with a password of learn the part.
And here we're just printing them.
And then it's just going to send back a 403 forbidden.
They are not authorized to perform any requests because, well, we don't have any means of authenticating
them.
All right.
And before we wrap up, I really want to drive home the point.
Once the request reaches this filter, its attempt authentication method will only get invoked if the
user is actually trying to authenticate.
So I don't know why I stopped running the app.
Let me just rerun it.
If I go here, if I were to misspell login and put, I don't know, four ends.
Nothing happens.
The request reaches the filter, but its attempt authentication method is not going to get invoked and
it just sends back a forbidden message.
All right.
And so the last thing I want to do is make this into a standalone variable and then pass it in.
So we'll say authentication filter off filter is equal to a new authentication filter.
And then I'm going to change the URL for which this filter gets processed.
Set Filter Processes URL.
And the path for which this filter will get processed is not going to be the standard login it's going
to now be authenticate.
So when the user wants to now authenticate, they have to write slash authenticate and that will now
trigger the authentication filters as attempt authentication method.
My apologies.
We have to actually add this instance.
Try out now.
Beautiful.
All right.
So the next step is to pass these credentials into an authentication manager that will then perform
the authentication process and hopefully send back a 200 if the credentials are correct.
But before we get into that, I just want to talk about exception handling and how it would be done
in spring security, what it's impossible to use the controller advice class.
All right.
See you soon.